INTRODUCTION

hello there everyone

so one day i decided to watch that one movie about the space race, and i saw the punch cards they used. i got intrigued and decided to print out some myself, albeit with much less space between them. i went further and decided to make a quick programming language exclusively for these cards, which went even further into making a higher level language for it that i would compile by hand for these cards. by this point, i was essentially making a 1960s computer implementation from scratch using the knowledge i gained up to this point. the language focuses around everything being very simple with no guardrails as to its memory; you can do basically anything with it, even modify itself and render code useless or change purpose.

eventually, i decided i needed a name, and after brainstorming a bit, i got to OMEN - Omnipresent MEmory implementatioN.

—

PROJECT

in the picture seen above, there is a deck of empty punch cards and the OMEN assembly reference sheet. Each OMEN line translates to a series of assembly instructions, represented as 10 bytes on each card. Any instruction less than 10 bytes is to be padded.

In the hypothetical OMEN machine, code is split into 10 bytes sections called referrals. These can be either code or data. Data is prefixed with the byte FF, while code is prefixed with an opcode. Addresses in memory are different from referrals, as they refer to individual bytes rather than chunks, and both types can be put in ranges.

All memory in OMEN can be manipulated. You can store code as data, data as code, self modify code and data at will, and use them interchangeably. The only distinction between the two is that data referrals don’t execute what is contained in them.

OMEN also focuses on its simplicity - the instruction set has only 25 instructions (the reference sheet is incomplete as of now) that each take operands, and the language itself is built off of only these instructions with no extensions or the like.

Combine the two, and you have a language that is minimalist yet very versatile. This is what makes up OMEN’s identity as a language.

—

CONCLUSION

To summarize, OMEN is a language born from the movie Hidden Figures and is focused around simplicity and versatility in memory. Its implementation will be on that of punch cards and coding sheets, though it has no practical use (as of now). I will regularly post updates to the language.

goodbye everyone (why the fuck is this so professional, i wanted this to be like a devlog or something ;w;)
